Today I'm gonna show you the Chicken Caravan.
It holds 450 birds, it's 8 meters long, 2,5 meters wide.
And I'll go through the features with you now.
These are the drinkers for the chickens,
they have a lid that opens and closes.
There's two separate water tanks inside
which hold approximately 200 litters.
The Chicken Caravan collects the water off the roof,
runs down these pipes, and into the tanks.
These tanks hold about 200 litters together,
and they're separated,
which provides security for your birds.
If one of your drinkers leaks out,
you still have water in the other tank.
And these are designed to be
holding tanks for a bit of security for your birds.
So the idea is in how whether they
In hot weather, they'll only last probably a maximum of three days
To fill the water tanks up by a hose
you have two fill points in the back.
Just connect the hose up to water them:
it will fill both tanks.
If you want to clean the water tanks,
we have two caps here which
you can just unscrew and clean them.
The water system has clear pipes
to show the water level of each tank.
You can see the water level through the pipe,
just below the clear pipes we've got two taps,
these taps go to the drinkers at the front of via the hoses.
You can turn these off and on as you need to.
The Chicken Caravan has a jack stand
which allows us to adjust the,
part of the A - Frame to level it up.
And we use this bubble down here
to get the right level.
This section in the front here,
we call it the Main Section.
And no birds can get into here
when you are in there.
Its got mesh on the wall in here,
and we got an area in here
where we can collect the eggs.
To get in the Main Section,
we got a nice easy step that just pulls out,
and allows for easy access.
One of the beauties about the Chicken Caravan
is that you can level up the nesting boxes,
because we have rollaway nesting boxes
that need to be leveled,
so we can park it on uneven ground,
and just level it out like so.
Once we got it leveled,
we've lock it off,
and that's done.
We have a handy egg shelf here
which is right next to the conveyor belt.
This is designed so it can be
taken off and mounted either side.
We just use the same handle which we use
to wind the eggs in and also for the jack stand.
just pops off, you can put it on the other side,
tie it up and then you can wind your eggs on this side.
With the Chicken Caravan we have a conveyor to collect the eggs.
To collect the eggs, just wind it in.
On the main section there's two doors either side,
which allows you access into where the chickens are,
this doors keep close just by magnet.
The beauty about this is,
you know, in bad weather or such,
you can get access and have a look,
see what your birds are doing.
The Chicken Caravan has a shelf built into the main section,
so you can store eggs, put your trays in there
it's a good height, it's out of the road
you can walk around it.
You can hook it up to a 4 - Wheel Drive quite easily,
just hooks up to a standard tow ball.
The drinkers automatically come up
when you wind the jack stand up.
Here we have a tractor with a 3 point linkage.
This allows us to quickly hook up the Chicken Caravan
and move it forward onto fresh pasture or to another paddock.
And also allows for a quick disconnect.
We've got a hand break fitting,
which allows us to break the wheels when we pull out
so that the Chicken Caravan isn't going to roll away on us.
The Chicken Caravan has
three large doors on each side.
These are to provide shade and shelter.
They're on lockable gas struts,
so you can move them in, and lock off.
And you can move the right in if it's cold or windy,
the birds still have access where they can get in and out.
You can also lock the birds right in if you want.
To open these large doors up,
you just need to undo the rubber catch, pull it out a little bit
then there's a catch under here.
When you got the desired position, release the catch:
the door stays where you want it.
The door is fully open at the moment.
To release the door, pull the handle, push the door,
release it when you want the desired height
and then the door will stay there.
This is one of the gas, lockable gas struts that we use
we got one on each side of the doors.
This allows us to lock these doors into any position that we like.
In the Chicken Caravan, we have rollaway nesting boxes.
The chickens just hop up onto this step
then they have access into the nesting boxes
behind these flaps. These flaps just make the nesting boxes a bit darker
and a bit more comfortable for the chickens.
On the bottom of the nesting boxes we have Astro Turf:
This is where the chickens lay on,
you can take them out and give them a clean.
This Astro Turf is on a slope,
it slopes down to a center conveyor belt
and the eggs just roll down on
that Astro Turf and you wind the eggs in.
The nesting boxes have what we call the "Nesting Box Gate"
this removes the birds at night
the nesting box gate is design so they gently remove the birds
at night, before they come in the roost.
And it opens in the morning.
You want to move your birds out at the night
to stop them popping in on your Astro Turf
or else, you'll find that you will get dirty eggs.
And the way this works: we have an electric actuator at the back
and we have a control box which has a timer,
you set the timer to, when you want it to open and close
and has a solar panel which keeps the battery charged.
The other big advantage with the Nesting Box Gate is
you got brooding birds,
you don't have to come down and pull them out at night,
the nesting box gate will move them out for you.
We got timer perches, it's good to have them movable,
so we can take them out for cleaning or for access.
Makes it a bit easy to move around the Chicken Caravan.